Add SubjQA dataset (#2302)
huggingface/datasets: datasets/subjqa/README.md

---
annotations_creators:
- expert-generated
language_creators:
- found
languages:
- en
licenses:
- unknown
multilinguality:
- monolingual
size_categories:
- 1K<n<10K
source_datasets:
- original
task_categories:
- question-answering
task_ids:
- extractive-qa
---

# Dataset Card for subjqa

## Table of Contents

> - [Dataset Card for subjqa](#dataset-card-for-subjqa)
>   - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
>   - [Dataset Description](#dataset-description)
>     - [Dataset Summary](#dataset-summary)
>       - [Data collection](#data-collection)
>     - [Supported Tasks and Leaderboards](#supported-tasks-and-leaderboards)
>     - [Languages](#languages)
>   - [Dataset Structure](#dataset-structure)
>     - [Data Instances](#data-instances)
>     - [Data Fields](#data-fields)
>     - [Data Splits](#data-splits)
>   - [Dataset Creation](#dataset-creation)
>     - [Curation Rationale](#curation-rationale)
>     - [Source Data](#source-data)
>       - [Initial Data Collection and Normalization](#initial-data-collection-and-normalization)
>       - [Who are the source language producers?](#who-are-the-source-language-producers)
>     - [Annotations](#annotations)
>       - [Annotation process](#annotation-process)
>       - [Who are the annotators?](#who-are-the-annotators)
>     - [Personal and Sensitive Information](#personal-and-sensitive-information)
>   - [Considerations for Using the Data](#considerations-for-using-the-data)
>     - [Social Impact of Dataset](#social-impact-of-dataset)
>     - [Discussion of Biases](#discussion-of-biases)
>     - [Other Known Limitations](#other-known-limitations)
>   - [Additional Information](#additional-information)
>     - [Dataset Curators](#dataset-curators)
>     - [Licensing Information](#licensing-information)
>     - [Citation Information](#citation-information)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dataset Description](#dataset-description)
  - [Dataset Summary](#dataset-summary)
  - [Supported Tasks](#supported-tasks)
  - [Languages](#languages)
- [Dataset Structure](#dataset-structure)
  - [Data Instances](#data-instances)
  - [Data Fields](#data-fields)
  - [Data Splits Sample Size](#data-splits-sample-size)
- [Dataset Creation](#dataset-creation)
  - [Curation Rationale](#curation-rationale)
  - [Source Data](#source-data)
  - [Annotations](#annotations)
  - [Personal and Sensitive Information](#personal-and-sensitive-information)
- [Considerations for Using the Data](#considerations-for-using-the-data)
  - [Social Impact of Dataset](#social-impact-of-dataset)
  - [Discussion of Biases](#discussion-of-biases)
  - [Other Known Limitations](#other-known-limitations)
- [Additional Information](#additional-information)
  - [Dataset Curators](#dataset-curators)
  - [Licensing Information](#licensing-information)
  - [Citation Information](#citation-information)
  - [Contributions](#contributions)
```

# other options include: electronics, grocery, movies, restaurants, tripadvisor
dataset = load_dataset("subjqa", "books")
```

#### Data collection
The SubjQA dataset is constructed based on publicly available review datasets. Specifically, the _movies_, _books_, _electronics_, and _grocery_ categories are constructed using reviews from the [Amazon Review dataset](http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/links.html). The _TripAdvisor_ category, as the name suggests, is constructed using reviews from TripAdvisor which can be found [here](http://times.cs.uiuc.edu/~wang296/Data/). Finally, the _restaurants_ category is constructed using the [Yelp Dataset](https://www.yelp.com/dataset) which is also publicly available.

The process of constructing SubjQA is discussed in detail in our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.14283). In a nutshell, the dataset construction consists of the following steps:

1. First, all _opinions_ expressed in reviews are extracted. In the pipeline, each opinion is modeled as a (_modifier_, _aspect_) pair which is a pair of spans where the former describes the latter. (good, hotel), and (terrible, acting) are a few examples of extracted opinions.

> 2. Using Matrix Factorization techninques, implication relationships between different expressed opinions are mined. For instance, the system mines that "responsive keys" implies "good keyboard". In our pipeline, we refer to the conclusion of an implication (i.e., "good keyboard" in this examples) as the _query_ opinion, and we refer to the premise (i.e., "responsive keys") as its _neighboring_ opinion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using Matrix Factorization techniques, implication relationships between different expressed opinions are mined. For instance, the system mines that "responsive keys" implies "good keyboard". In our pipeline, we refer to the conclusion of an implication (i.e., "good keyboard" in this examples) as the _query_ opinion, and we refer to the premise (i.e., "responsive keys") as its _neighboring_ opinion.
```

* [Amazon Review Dataset](http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/links.html) from UCSD
    * Used for _books_, _movies_, _grocery_, and _electronics_ domains
* [The TripAdvisor Dataset](http://times.cs.uiuc.edu/~wang296/Data/) from UIUC's Database and Information Systems Laboratory
    * Used for the _TripAdvisor_ domain
* [The Yelp Dataset](https://www.yelp.com/dataset)
    * Used for the _restaurants_ domain

Consequently, the data within each domain of the SubjQA dataset should be considered under the same license as the dataset it was built upon.

### Citation Information

If you are using the dataset, please cite the following in your work:
```
@inproceedings{bjerva20subjqa,
    title = "SubjQA: A Dataset for Subjectivity and Review Comprehension",
    author = "Bjerva, Johannes  and
      Bhutani, Nikita  and
      Golahn, Behzad  and
      Tan, Wang-Chiew  and
      Augenstein, Isabelle",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    month = November,
    year = "2020",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
}

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

### Contributions

Thanks to [@lewtun](https://github.com/lewtun) for adding this dataset.

````

---
annotations_creators:
- expert-generated
language_creators:
- found
languages:
- en
licenses:
- unknown
multilinguality:
- monolingual
size_categories:
- 1K<n<10K
source_datasets:

> - original

Reviewer: From the licensing information we know that it's based on other datasets: Amazon Review Dataset from UCSD, The TripAdvisor Dataset from UIUC's Database and Information Systems Laboratory, The Yelp Dataset.

So I would add 
```suggestion
- original
- yelp_review_full
- other-amazon_reviews_ucsd
- other-tripadvisor_reviews
```
(we don't have the amazon and tripadvisor datasets in the library)

Author: good idea - i did not realise we could link to other datasets on the hub this way!

| Electronics | 1295  | 255 | 358  | 1659  |
| Grocery     | 1124  | 218 | 591  | 1725  |

Based on the subjectivity labels provided by annotators, one observes that 73% of the questions and 74% of the answers in the dataset are subjective. This provides a substantial number of subjective QA pairs as well as a reasonable number of factual questions to compare and constrast the performance of QA systems on each type of QA pairs.

Finally, the next table summarizes the average length of the question, the review, and the highlighted answer span for each category.

| Domain      | Review Len | Question Len | Answer Len | % answerable |
|-------------|------------|--------------|------------|--------------|
| TripAdvisor | 187.25     | 5.66         | 6.71       | 78.17        |
| Restaurants | 185.40     | 5.44         | 6.67       | 60.72        |
| Movies      | 331.56     | 5.59         | 7.32       | 55.69        |
| Books       | 285.47     | 5.78         | 7.78       | 52.99        |
| Electronics | 249.44     | 5.56         | 6.98       | 58.89        |
| Grocery     | 164.75     | 5.44         | 7.25       | 64.69        |

## Dataset Creation

### Curation Rationale

> Most question-answering datasets like SQuAD and Natural Questions focus on answering questions over factual data such as Wikipedia and news articles. However, in domains like e-commerce the questions and answers are often _subjective_, that is, they depend on the personal experience of the users. For example, a customer on Amazon may ask "Is the sound quality any good?", which is more difficult to answer than a factiod question like "What is the capital of Australia?" These considerations motivate the creation of SubjQA as a tool to investigate the relationship between subjectivity and question-answering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most question-answering datasets like SQuAD and Natural Questions focus on answering questions over factual data such as Wikipedia and news articles. However, in domains like e-commerce the questions and answers are often _subjective_, that is, they depend on the personal experience of the users. For example, a customer on Amazon may ask "Is the sound quality any good?", which is more difficult to answer than a factoid question like "What is the capital of Australia?" These considerations motivate the creation of SubjQA as a tool to investigate the relationship between subjectivity and question-answering.
```
